GUEST: I brought a musk ox, a bart piece by
an Inuit stone carver.
On a trip in the 1980's to Inuit country in
Canada.
I went to this gift shop.
This looked more like a museum piece, so I...
acquired it.
APPRAISER: The artist's name is Mark Tungilik.
You purchased it in the 80's.
I don't know how long the store had it, but
Mark was born in 1913.
And he died in 1986.
GUEST: They gave me a brochure, and it looks
like these musk ox were 1960's.
APPRAISER: Yes it was, it was a theme he was
heavily into at that particular time.
In terms of carving, Inuit art has been around
from prehistoric times, but it was in the
40's, the Canadian government stepped forward
to help organize the Inuit first people of
Canada to have a guild to ensure that they
would get a fair price for their work.
Your piece is made out of soapstone, and the
horns are made out of whale bone.
When it came out of the box, I was in love
with it from the second I saw it.
He's appreciated in price, not as aggressively
as some of the artists of the time.
The largest market for them, obviously, is
in Canada.
And, there are auction house that dedicate
themselves to their sales, and a lot of these
artists that began carving in the 30's, 40's,
50's, and 60's are achieving prices in the
tens of thousands of dollars.
So, Bob, you bought this in a retail setting,
and you paid?
GUEST: About 800 dollars, I think.
APPRAISER: OK.
Well, these pieces are selling now in the
auction market for about 2000 to 2500 dollars.
It wouldn't surprise me if you returned to
Vancouver area or any part of Canada and found
them, again, sitting in retail galleries and
selling for 4000 dollars.
GUEST: Wonderful.